# Resource isolation

The sandbox supports isolation of the filesystem, registry, and network.

## Filesystem

Filesystem isolation consists of three kind of layers:
1. `RawFS` — the raw filesystem, content is immutable.
2. `LowerFS` — the sandbox filesystem, mapped to a specific path within `RawFS`. Content is immutable. One sandbox can have multiple `LowerFS`.
2. `UpperFS` — the working filesystem, used to store all file changes. Only one `UpperFS` is allowed.

The structure of `LowerFS` is as follows:

```
.
|- %APPDATA%
|- %Profile%
|- %ProgramData%
|- %ProgramFiles%
|- <DRIVER>
|- registry.reg
```

The structure of `UpperFS` is as follows:

```
.
|- <DRIVER>
|- registry.hive
```

All content is optional.

The file search order is as follows:
1. `UpperFS`
2. `LowerFS`
3. `RawFS`


## Registry

Registry files can be stored in each layer, including `LowerFS` and `UpperFS`.

### Registry in `LowerFS`

In `LowerFS`, the registry is stored in `registry.reg`. It is a extended version of the Windows registry format, which cannot be used directly by the Windows registry.

#### Key whiteout

Key whiteout is used to hide full subtrees in this layers. The syntax is a key name prefixed with `-`. For example:

```
[-HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Legacy]
```

#### Value whiteout

Value whiteout is used to hide this specific values in this and lower layers:

```
[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Foo]
"OldFlag"=-
```

#### Path opaque

Path opaque is used to hide specific paths in lower layers:

```
[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Foo]
".$APPBOX_OPAQUE$"=dword:00000001
```

### Registry in `UpperFS`

In `UpperFS`, the registry is stored in `registry.hive`, which is a file can be mounted by `RegLoadAppKeyW` or related NT API.

The `registry.hive` structure is:

```
.
|- DATA                         // Clean data for application
|   |- Machine\Software\...     // For HKLM
|   |- User\<SID>\SoftWare\...  // For HKCU
|   |- ...                      // etc.
|- __sbx__                      // Internal control data for sandbox
```

The `registry.hive` is generated by first run of `loader`, and then mounted by each sandboxed process when starting.

The `registry.hive` follows these rules:

1. If sandboxed process open registry item, and this item exists in `registry.hive`, the item is opened from `registry.hive`.

2. if sandboxed process open registry item, and this item is not exists in `registry.hive`:
    - If item exists in host registrym, and want to open with read-only access, the item is not copied, and application open it directly.
    - If item exists in host registry, and want to open with write access, the item is copied from host registry to `registry.hive`.
    - If item is not exists in host registry, then application open it in mapping path in `registry.hive`.

## Network

TO BE CONTINUED
